(smooth jazzy music)
Many of you will be familiar with the face of this guest
from his appearances on any number
of national television programs and Internet programs.
Dr. Michael Beckwith is considered to be
one of the top inspirational speakers in the world
and was termed a "new thought minister".
His journey began with the teachings
of both the east and the west.
What many don't know, however, is that his journey
was not religious in nature, but mystical.
Michael, most people have seen
your shiny face before, either on Larry King Live,
The Secret, many many other places.
YouTube. You're all over YouTube.
And I think that you have become, in one sense,
for people who don't join you in Los Angeles,
or via Agape Live, you've become very synonymous
with the film The Secret.
And this had a certain process to it of visualization
that was exposing, as we call it, kind of newbees
to the whole notion of creating an outcome.
But your work actually goes to another level beyond that
and I want to talk to you about the beyond The Secret.
Going from visualiztion to visioning,
and the distinction between the two.
Absolutely.
You're absolutely correct, the movie The Secret
was actually produced for beginngers.
Yes.
As Rhonda Byrne was putting that movie together
she was a little disturbed
that she had gotten into her fifties
and knew nothing about these universal principles.
So she geared the movie specifically for people
who had never heard of these particular practices
or principles.
So, in my work, I've been the director of Agape
for going on 24 years now.
And so, we've always engaged the development of the soul,
the embracing of the evolutionary impulse
that governs the entire universe.
So it's more or less we're here to evolve,
to become our best self, to awaken,
to move into different stages of enlightenment.
So, in the beginning of the work there's visualization,
which an individual sees what they think they want in life,
has a wonderful image of it,
has a level of emotional embracing of it,
a feeling that it's already happening,
walking in that awareness.
That's all a part of the manifestation process.
But visioning is really another level.
Visioning is where instead of you imprinting
or trying to tell the universe what you want,
you instead are aware that there's something within you
that's trying to emerge.
And it's beyond your imagination, it's beyond your past,
your history, your present perceptions,
your present paradigm.
And so you're literally putting yourself in a position
to ask "What's trying to emerge in my life?"
"What vision is held within me
that's trying to come forward?"
So here you enter into acts of yielding,
surrender, releasing, letting go.
These are more the qualities in that,
so you find yourself being surprised, sometimes shocked
by the good and the love and the depth of compassion
or generosity, or genius, that's within you.
So you're not imprinting this is what I want.
You're asking, you know, what's trying to come forward.
So it's actually the next stage of our work.
This is the more mature question.
However, as western civilization is what it is,
the first step is "I want this."
"Let's just see if I can get what I want."
Absolutely!
And some people were able
to get what they want, but it's such a complex subject
when you're dealing with these imprints, really, in utero.
Shall we maybe even go so far as to say
before in utero?
Absolutely.
We have these imprints going on
and so our world view is formed
in a very narrow and limited fashion.
From our family, from our greater world, our tribe,
and what you have to do
is inspire
not just the asking of new questions,
but the daring, it seems to me, to have a larger vision.
Oh, absolutely.
So let's talk about how you begin
guiding people.
Let's talk about you, how you did that for you
in the very beginning.
(Michael laughs)
I wanna know about you.
Oh, that's interesting.
Well, we'd have to go back about 30 years.
Let's do it.
And, um, you know, as a child
I had different openings and different experiences
but I wasn't able to hold that particular world view.
But as I was attending USC
I began to have these inner experiences
and seeing things that,
because I was in the psychobiology department,
these were deemed pathological.
Seeing visions, hearing voices,
things of this particular nature.
Yes.
And this is back in the seventies
so, I thought I was literally losing my mind.
Well, what kind of things were you seeing?
What made you feel that way?
Well, for instance, I would come home,
let's say I'd be looking at television,
suddenly I'd be on my ceiling, looking down at myself
look at television.
Or I would think about my mother
and the next thing I know I'm in her kitchen
looking at her cook.
You were having kind of out of body,
or astral travel experiences.
Out of body experiences, dreams, prophetic dreams.
All of this was going on at a very intense,
it was very intense, time.
I mean, every night was an adventure when I went to sleep.
I didn't know what was going to happen.
But because I had no spiritual background
or spiritual practice, I didn't know
these were somewhat common experiences
that you could grow into.
I didn't know what they were.
I just thought I was losing my mind to a degree.
I could remember being in one of my psych classes
and I was watching to teacher teach
and suddenly I saw all these spirits around him,
jumping in and out of his body as he was teaching.
He was very animated.
He was teaching and I was looking
and I said to my friend next to me,
I said "Do you see that?"
And he said "What?"
I said "All those beings jumping in and out of the teacher."
And he looked at me like
"Man, have you lost your mind?"
"I don't see anything."
And so I thought I was losing it.
And I was doing an internship program
with individuals who were in mental institutions.
Yes.
And I can remember going in one time,
I was working with this young man who was in there,
and we were playing ping pong
and I was asking him why he was inside.
And he says "Oh, you know, I have these visions
and I see things."
And he began to describe some of my own experiences
except he's locked up.
This is the problem, isn't it?
Yeah!
It's a big problem,
with a lot of people locked up.
Right. And so about three or four minutes we were talking
and then I realized we weren't talking.
It was telepathy.
And I remember putting the ping pong paddle down
and walking out, checking out.
(interviewer laughs)
I said I am not going to be stuck in here.
So, anyway, this culminated with an experience.
I had a series of dreams in which,
and this is somewhat described to a limited degree
in my book and the movie Spiritual Liberation,
but I was chased by these three men.
I had this dream almost every night
for almost a year.
And one night in the dream,
this is a very lucid dream, I'm conscious in this dream,
and I was tired, I said "I'm not gonna run anymore"
and I turned around and I saw these three men
approaching, and I turned behind me
and there was this small tent
with this long line of people
trying to get into a small tent.
And interestingly enough,
I knew all of these people in line.
And so I started screaming to them to help me.
And one by one they turned their back on me.
Two of the men held me down
and the other plunged a knife into my heart.
The pain was excruciating, physically.
I mean, really.
I screamed out and I died
and when I woke up, things were different.
I was different.
I could see that we were surrounded
by this universal presence.
And I called the presence love-beauty.
I wasn't using the name God yet
because I was somewhat agnostic
at that time in my life.
So, but the love was so penetrating in my being.
I'd never ever experienced anything to that depth
or richness, and I knew I was totally loved
by this presence.
And the beauty of what I could see,
this presence being everywhere,
in animate and inanimate objects.
The love and the beauty was just so overwhelming
and I got up from that experience
and I went on a search
to discover what had happened to me.
And that's when I bumped into eastern and western mysticism
and began to understand the universal teachings
from this wider paradigm.
And I never got back in the box.
When I was stabbed in the heart and woke up
I lost every single friend I had, just about.
They all thought I had freaked out, lost my mind,
because I was very aware that there was only one life,
there was this one presence.
It was everywhere in everything.
We had never died, we were never born,
we were gonna live forever.
You know, I was aware of all these sacred truths
of what was real, what was essential.
And the fire that I had
those years ago
to discover what had happened to me
and to go into deeper states of awareness,
I still have the same fire now.
There's been no abating
of that kind of intense desire to search and serve.
As you were saying this
I was getting chills throughout my body.
I'm sure it's quite easy for you now in hindsight
to be able to articulate what part of you
had to die that night in the dream.
Uh, so much died in me.
Fear died at that moment.
You know, the ego's always projecting into the future
"What's going to happen to me?'
"How am I going to make it work?"
Whatever the case may be.
And when I came out of that
I had no fear about anything.
It was just a fearlessness.
And I can remember looking at human beings
and they were very concerned about money
and concerned about so many things
and it was almost comical to me.
I said "Why is everybody so concerned
about the nonessentials?"
I remember that was part of my conversation
back in those days, you know,
and there was just an overhwelming desire
to discover who and what I was
and to give what I was supposed to give
while I was here.
It was almost like, during this limited time
we have in this incarnation,
we must give as much as we can.
You know, leave nothing behind before we leave.
So, so much died, it'd be difficult to think about it now
but any sense of skepticism,
cynicism, jadedness,
defense mechanisms, places where the heart
had grown protective of itself.
All of that seemed to crumble.
So it was like the big F encompasses it all.
Fear.
Yes.
All of those things are predicated upon fear.
Absolutely.
So you lost the fear.
Lost the fear.
What an incredible gift.
I mean, to go through that
and all of the kind of self-doubts
prior to that, through the educational system,
the experiences you were having,
to have blasted through.
Now how much time elapsed after that
before you really realized you have to do something.
You have to help others in this way.
How did you start forging
even a means of articulating this
and then launch into sharing with others?
Right, the articulation wasn't that good at the beginning.
It took a couple of years to just integrate
what had happened, and what continued to happen to me.
That one experience was an opening,
but I had many others.
There was a period of years when I would go into white light
and be bombarded with tremendous information
and knowledge.
And there was not anyone to talk to about this.
That's right.
This was very weird.
And fortunately a lot of the dead mystics were my friends.
I would read the stories of these individuals.
"Oh, that's what it is!"
You know, I studied Walter Russell,
where he was taken into a very expanded cosmic awareness
and I'd say "Oh, that's what that is!"
and different people,
so I became aware of that.
But it took a few years to integrate,
because I went through a period of time
where I did no care about the earthly incarnation.
You know, and that's not good either.
You can go to one extreme--
Right, but it seems the natural extension
of that kind of--
Yes.
Enlightened experience.
Yes, and so I didn't care.
I mean, I was much skinnier than I am now.
Like 118 pounds.
I didn't eat, you know.
I fasted all the time, meditated all the time.
What people were concerned about in the world
I was unconcerned about that.
I was really no earthly good.
But I was very exalted in this other state.
And I had a family,
and so they were waiting for me
to get on with it, you know.
Yeah, I bet.
You know, I'd been in college
and so I started to get back into the work force
and I was kinda the weird one at work, you know.
And then I can remember, it was a period of time
before that happened,
I said "Okay, what do you want me to do with my life?"
I was sitting in my living room,
I said "What do you want me to do?"
You know, I see so much, I feel so much,
I love humanity.
And I didn't want to be a minister
because in the old paradigm,
the way I looked at ministers was not a good perception.
Because I didn't believe what they were saying,
so I was wondering how these people could stand up
and talk about hell and original sins
and all this stuff, and be believable.
So I'm sitting in my living room
and I said "Okay, what do you want me to do?"
And the phone rang.
And it was this lady on the phone
who I had not seen since high school
and she said "Is this Michael Beckwith?"
I said "Yes."
She said "I saw your phone number in the annual,
our high school annual, when we graduated.
And I was just guided to call you.
I think you can help me."
And I said "Well how?"
And she started telling me her problems in life.
And she said "I was guided that you could assist me."
So I listened to her, and I would guide her,
and I would pray for her.
And she would call me from time to time
and she would send little checks in the mail to me
thanking me for the assistance.
Spiritual guidance.
And so, a number of months later,
I'm going into a restaurant, and I see her in line.
And I hadn't seen this woman in a long time,
since high school.
And I called her name and she looked at me
and first she was happy, then she was shocked,
and then she ran out of the restaurant.
Because as long as I was a voice on the phone,
a kind of anonymous voice,
she could share all of the stuff she was going through.
It was okay.
But when there was now a face to the voice,
I think she felt embarrassed
at some of the things that she had gone through.
Never heard from her again.
And then I started thinking
I didn't even have this phone number
when I was in high school
and my phone number is unlisted.
You know, so how did she get my phone number?
She said she saw it under my annual.
And that made me just begin to think about
the fact that this was divinely orchestrated
for me to begin to walk down my path
to discover what I was to be about.
And from there,
my mother and another friend of mine, Lissa Sprinkles,
took me to a metaphysical church,
and I can remember walking into it,
and I would never go into a church,
and I walked into it.
And the minister, Daniel Morgan,
was saying "Heaven and hell are not places,
they're states of consciousness."
And I said "He's right!"
(laughing) You'd been there.
"He's right!"
Yeah.
And everyone turned around to look at me,
to see who this young whippersnapper was saying this,
interrupting this guy's sermon.
And I sat down,
and I began to embark upon a studying
to ultimately become a spiritual counselor.
And so, what that gave me,
was some of the language to articulate
the visions and the experience.
The interiority was so rich.
And I now had language to go with that.
You know, what I had been studying
as well as these classes.
So it allowed me to begin to integrate
what I was to do.
And so, today.
Let's fast forward almost 24 years later.
So, ultimately, your message
was resonating with a lot of people.
Yes.
Agape International was born, right?
Right, 1986
1986. So this was ahead of the game a bit.
It was when, excuse me (clears throat),
when this type of thinking was really just beginning
to emerge in any way to the public at all
and you were one of the way-showers of this, big time.
This was early on.
Yeah, you had Terry Cole-Whittaker out there
with her tv program,
and you had Dr. Johnny Coleman in Chicago
with the mega metaphysical community.
You had certain pioneers.
Barbara King, Dan Morgan.
There were certain people our there.
There were a handful out there.
Yeah.
But I remember in the time not a lot.
And there was a movement,
but the movement was like almost undercover.
(Michael laughs)
Yeah, it was very much so.
Yeah.
I remember I was a news anchor lady
at the time, trying to hide that part of my life.
(laughs)
Everybody was like, you had to use certain words
to see...
Exactly.
...uh, "meditation".
So you started out what,
with a handful of people?
I started in my living room actually.
In your living room, okay.
Yes.
And today?
Today there're thousands.
On any given Sunday we do three services.
There would be five, six thousand people
on a Sunday, then another thousand and a half
on Wednesday night, plus classes during the week.
And live.
And you're audio streaming live, aren't you?
Plus the audio streaming around the world,
plus online class around the world,
plus people subscribing...
Yes.
...to the tapes and CDs from around the world.
And now the PBS special.
PBS special.
That's no mean feat.
No, millions of people there.
Yeah.
And people coming for our conference every year
and meditation retreats that I do.
That means you learned
how to articulate this stuff really, really well.
Yeah yeah, the articulation.
So let's go and do
some of the fundamentals now.
We're looking at, we have to ask
a different kind of question
to begin, as I spoke about when I asked you that
last questions, about you,
starting to move beyond our, each one of us,
teensy world views of what is possible.
How do you begin working with the person?
Especially a person who didn't have your experience,
who's still in fear, but they're showing up
because they're being guided to.
Well, it would depend.
I would know, being with the individual.
But the basics would be to begin to ask
empowering questions.
Most people ask disempowering questions.
They ask "Why me, why is this happening,
who's to blame, what's wrong?"
And the universe will answer any question you ask.
So if you ask who's to blame, what's wrong, why me,
you'll get a plethora
of unevolved,
disjointed,
unhealed areas of your own life
that would become reflected back to you.
But if you begin to ask questions
like "What's trying to emerge in my life, who am I,
why am I here, what gift needs to emerge
that would heal the problem that I'm in right now?"
If you begin to ask those kind of questions
you'll start to get insights and revelations
and inner guidance, inner feeling
as to what you next step is.
So it's to shift a person from being a victim
of circumstance and their past and their history,
to stepping into taking responsibility for their life
and asking what gifts are trying to be activated to express.
So I teach people that you go through four stages
of spiritual growth.
You go through the victim stage,
which is where a lot of the unconscious people live.
Something outside is determining their experience.
And then you move into the manifestor stage,
where you take responsibility for your life,
you learn the nature of thought and thinking.
You learn that you're connected with this vast presence
by whatever name you wanna call it,
that it's friendly, it's for you,
it doesn't compromise nor contradict its own nature.
You seek to become consciously one with it
through the practice of affirmative prayer,
meditation, contemplation,
affirmation, study,
right kind of fellowship, finding some area
of service in your life.
You do all of this, in which you make yourself
a candidate for rich insights.
Mhmm.
And once that becomes subjectified within you
then the third stage is you realize
you're not a person, you're a place.
That this vast life wants to come through you.
In the first stage you think something's
doing something to you.
The second stage you're using it, you're using the laws.
The third stage is operating through you.
And here you find yourself privilege
to being in the zone sometimes.
You're not even thinking
but something is operating through you
in ways beyond your wildest imaginings.
And the fourth stage, you realize you're it.
The embodiment.
Total embodiment.
Yes.
My life is the same life.
It's the only life that there is.
Call it love, call it God, call it the evolutionary impulse.
Call it what you will.
And so I'll guide people through those four stages.
So in stage two, you're actually giving them tools.
The basic metaphysical tools
in which they begin to understand
that the universe is lawful.
It's not capricious, it's not happenstance,
it's not accidental.
Nor are we.
And then as you get that more and more
you're able to surrender.
You're able to let go of control
because we're depending upon an order, or we're surrendering
to an order we all depend on.
It's like, you don't make the law of aerodynamics work,
you surrender to it and you fly.
You don't force yourself onto the law of buoyancy.
You surrender to the law of buoyancy
and it floats your boat.
So you see in that same way
there's an order that we depend on.
But there has to be a maturity
in the person to even embark upon the journey
to be willing to be surprised.
Absolutely, and that's why the universe
has something really powerful for us
and it's called pain. (laughs)
Yeah, that's our wakeup call.
Yeah pushes until the vision pulls.
Yeah.
So...
Well, going from there,
your publication, Spiritual Liberation.
What you're talking about right now
are these kind of the tenants
of what you work with within that?
Well, Spiritual Liberation is 18 chapters
of how to embrace this evolutionary impulse
and it's for beginners and veterans.
There's enough there...
Mhmm
...that if somebody's been studying for years
they will feel and hear and catch the subtleties
that you'll be able to catch
if you've had a level of practice.
Yes.
Now if you haven't had a level of practice,
the basics are right there for everybody
to begin to practice.
And some things you won't notice
because you haven't been practicing long enough
to even know what sentence even means
or why it's relevant.
But for a person who's been sitting in meditation
for 10, 15, 20 years they'll understand exactly
that that's the next stage of evolution.
So the book is for all, all people.
And it carries practices and embodiments as well.
[Voiceover] So for you,
how big can it be?
How big can life be?
How big can the dream that we dream for ourselves be?
The bigger the better.
(laughing) Yeah.
I mean, you've really dreamed yourself
into an incredibly large presence.
Yeah, and it's all about service.
I really believe.
I can remember than when I was a kid, though.
You see, I was 11, 12 years old, I would sit
and lay on my back looking up at the sky
and this beautiful tree
in my father's front yard.
And I can remember I wanted to make a difference
in the transformation of the planet.
And so, that's what I think about all the time.
Making a difference on the planet
before I leave it, you know.
And so, because of that,
I'm put into positions where I meet beautiful people,
wonderful people, that have a similar dream,
a similar focus, similar vision.
And then there's evolutionary alliances
that are formed
and power is garnered and amplified.
So this is the real key.
One of the keys of what you said earlier,
you're teaching people,
is we have to be able to hear the answer
to the question "Why am I here?"
Absolutely.
What is my purpose?
Without the answers to those simple questions,
but profound questions, you really can't magnetize to you
what you need to accomplish what you were born into.
No.
What you were born to do.
Most people are living at this victim stage
where they are subject to malicious hypnotism.
And that's the hypnotism of the world.
And they think they're to come here,
get a lot of money or be entertained
or whatever, and be anti-bored until they die,
and there's nothing there in between,
there's no real reason for them to be alive.
And so if they're born in America,
high tech, low touch society, materialism, consumerism,
they think they're here to shop.
And people really think that's why they're existing.
(laughing) I've said that many times too.
You know, shop or be entertained.
Right.
One of the two things, they don't realize it.
Totally passive endeavors, in a sense.
Yeah, like "I'm here to be entertained."
And so they don't realize that they're here
to be creators, they're here to manifest creativity
and resourcefulness, and activate the genius
at a very profound level.
And so they're just guided along
until some kind of existential crisis occurs
and then they begin to ask these kind of questions.
Why am I here, what my real purpose is.
Because you're not gonna get it from the college system
because that's preparing you for a job
to fit into society.
You're not gonna get it, your religious,
because they're preparing you for the afterlife.
If you're good you might go to heaven, you know,
and so everybody's keeping you away from you.
You know, there's nothing bringing you to you.
So yeah, people, we need to wake up.
We do, and when you were talking
about our being driven by just consuming,
what was flashing through my mind in that moment
was a scene in the animated film WALL-E,
I don't know if you saw that.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
With all those little babies
watching commercials, chubbing up by the moment,
sucking on their big smoothies.
Right, right, right.
Soft drinks from birth.
And that's kind of what we've got, isn't it?
That was a wakeup call.
That was brilliantly done.
Brilliantly done.
It wasn't preaching, it was just reflection.
So, we're obviously going to suggest
that anybody who wants to connect,
you almost get a contact high being with you
because you really do embody
what you have experienced throughout your life.
And this love really comes pouring off of you,
so as a spiritual leader in this world,
people can have a taste of you any time
just by coming to Agave Live, for one.
Agape!
Excuse me, I just want my agave.
(laughing) Agave Live, that was a slip!
It's sweet like agave.
(interviewer laughing)
We used to sell Agape agave (laughing).
Okay, sorry about that one, little slip.
But I think everybody knows the intention.
But let's before we wrap it up,
let's get to Citizen Global and what that's all about.
Oh, absolutely.
Well individuals can actually be their own media.
They can go to Citizen Global.
I think it's Citizen Global, black slash, hyphen, Agape.
And we have our on studio there
and there's a number of people who have studios there.
You can actually go there and put your own film,
your own information, you can answer
some of the questions we have there
about the answer is you.
It's very powerful, so people are logging in
around the world now and creating this powerful community
where people are speaking their own truth
and realizing that they can be their own media.
That's fabulous.
Yeah, so they could...
We have to feel we're part of.
Absolutely. And we are.
And this is really the drive now,
this is what the Internet is allowing.
The Internet and this type of technology
is really the birth of the second coming, you see,
of this collective consciousness of oneness.
Not coming through one person
but coming through a collective, a group of individuals
who are catching a vision and who are articulating it
and acting on it.
So Citizen Global, they can access
right through Agape Live dot com.
They can go right there.
Wonderful.
They can go right there for the PBS special,
they can go right there for my online community,
to join that, or to watch me live
on Sundays or Wednesdays as well.
So, my final question simply,
a lot of people are in fear right now.
They appear to be losing a great deal in their lives.
Yes.
And so, coming into contact with you
and your works really is almost an intervention
of sorts at a very painful and critical time.
But it's more, rather than individual,
we're kind of going through a collective pain right now.
Right.
Any final comments to that?
I would say, as there's so many final comments,
one, fear, can be debilitating.
And so I teach people just to take your fear with you.
Most people will hesitate
and say "You know, I'm gonna do such and such
when I get over my fear."
Well you're never gonna get over your fear
because you have a body
and as long as you have a body
you have an ego.
And the ego wants to keep you in your present paradigm
so it's always going to project the fear
of worst case scenarios.
So I teach people, take your fear with you.
Good.
Become aware of what your next step is,
and then take the fear with you.
The fear will become transmuted
into excitement and then enthusiasm.
How practical, how real.
But don't wait until you get rid of it.
Yeah.
Because you never are going to get rid of it.
Well you said there're a bunch of points.
Do you wanna give us one more?
Otherwise, we could talk for days,
so we'll let people kinda find you after that.
One more that you feel is as relevant
as take your fear with you?
Well I think that there are a lot of people
out here who want to save the planet,
save the world.
And I would share with them
you don't want to save the world,
you want to serve the emerging paradigm.
The world that's out here right now,
we don't really wanna save the world
that has fear, bigotry, selfishness, greed.
We wanna let that world dissolve.
We wanna serve that which is tyring to emerge
and that's where visioning comes in
in asking the right questions.
So we can begin to see it, articulate it,
and then act from it.
Beautifully put.
Michael, thank you so much
for taking some time to spend with us today.
It is my joy, thank you.
To experience more of Dr. Beckwith's work
you can visit his website
at AgapeLive.com, where you can join in
with his weekly inspirational talks.
You'll also find a listing of his workshops
around the country, in which he facilitates
his life visioning process.
Again, go to AgapeLive.com.
For more of this kind of inspired conversation
you might also enjoy my conversations
with Peter Russell and Byron Katie.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(easy listening music)